So now that we can add new todo items as well as new goals to the state of our store,
the next thing we want to do is actually show each of those items on the UI themselves,
rather than just in the console here.
So back inside of our index.html file,
head down to the bottom here where we have our DOM code.
I'm just going to put it a little node in for that.
And now what we want to do is we want to make two new functions.
What we will call them is add todo to DOM.
And the second one is going to be, addGoal to DOM.
What these are going to be responsible for is they are
going to take in a specific todo item or a specific goal,
and then just as they imply,
they are going to add that individual item to
the DOM itself so that they will show up in the UI.
So first let's do add todo to DOM.
As I just mentioned, this is going to take in a to do item.
And then if you're not familiar with DOM scripting,
doing stuff like ElementById or addEventListener.
This might be a little bit new to you but know that again,
all we're doing here is we're taking a todo item and then adding it
to this list item up here.
And then when we do our goals,
we will take each individual goal and then we'll just create
a new list item and add that element to our enrolled list up here.
So instead of add todo to DOM,
the first thing we want to do is let's create a brand new
Node by using document.createElement.
As I mentioned, this is going to be a list item.
Then let's create a new text node by saying document.createTextNode,
and we're going to pass in
the name of this text node which is just going to be the name on the todo item.
From there what we want to do is we want to grab our node and append to it our text node,
and then we can grab our node list by saying document.getElementById,
we'll pass in todos.
And then from there,
we went to append onto it our node.
So now let's do something similar for our addGoal to DOM function.
So this is going to take in a goal.
And then first what we want to do is create our node using document.createElement,
we want to create a new list item from there just as we did before,
let's create a new text node using document.createTextNode,
passing in the name of the text node which is going to be called that name.
Now we want to grab our node and append to it our text node,
and then from there just as we did in add todo to DOM, we want to say,
document.getElementById, we want to grab our goals and ordered list,
and then append to it the node.
So now that we have these two functions which are
going to help us in adding new items to the DOM,
the next thing we want to do is actually invoke these functions for
each todo item or for each goal that lives inside of our store.
So let's head up to where we called store.subscribe.
And now instead of console.log in what the new state is,
let's go ahead and actually add those items to the DOM.
So we'll grab the goals as well as
the todos from our state which we can get by calling store.getState.
And now we want to for each item inside of goals,
we want to call addGoal to DOM,
and for each item inside of todos,
we want to add or we want to invoke the add todo to DOM function.
So now what should happen,
is if we refresh our app,
let's add a new to do item here called, Walk the dog.
Now you'll notice it shows up right here and we can add a new goal.
Let's say, Learn Redux,
and now we get Learn Redux down here but you'll also
notice that we have walk the dog here twice.
Now the reason for that is because if you remember when we are subscribing to our store,
we're just saying whenever the store changes,
go ahead and run this line as well as this line.
So we added a new todo item to our state which went and ran this function,
and populated the todo item inside of the DOM itself.
And then when we added a new goal,
we added that goal to the DOM but we also again went
and added the new or the previous todo items to the DOM as well.
So we can fix that just by saying,
we want to reset both an ordered list every time the subscribe function is invoked.
So we can just say innerHTML equals an empty string.
So, any time the store changes,
we want to reset all of our goals,
as well as all of our todos in the DOM,
and then we want to map over all of the goals and
all the todos adding each of those to the DOM.
So again, our DOM is really just a representation of
the state inside of our store and not the other way around.
So now what should happen is we say, walk the dog,
Learn Redux, and each time we add a new item,
the DOMs are cleared and then we get all those items put back into the DOM.